when it comes to tennis the number one
thing is consistency
do you know what I'm saying I know
you have to have consistency that
encompasses a lot of different things in
tennis
elbow injury for a month and then ankle
injury for another month or two
uh something else wait a minute what you
have your elbow your elbow hurts
and I was super busy with competition so
didn't play so consistency you have to
really dedicate yourself to it you do
I have lapses of time where I don't yeah
dedicate myself to it I get it yeah well
you you're talking about consistency of
actually training I'm talking about
consistency of your shots
having the ability to keep the ball in
play and go back and forth I want to
like to get to a level where we can
consistently exchange rallies that are
10 plus meaning 10 times in a row
now this might sound simple as an easy
task but consistency in tennis
encompasses everything it encompasses
your ball recognition your intensity
your footwork
your stroke mechanics everything is
encompassed if you want to be consistent
and playing with the right technique of
course you can stand there and like push
the ball and and
steer it and get 10 in a row that's not
what I want I don't want you to hit it
with decent pace
and not miss and that is one of the most
challenging things about tennis and
that's what I would like to work with
you today but General that's always one
of my objectives and our lessons is to
work on consistency and then of course
if I see technical flaws
I will correct them instantly Anna
what
what coaches
the next yeah
I mean so that's why my goals are flying
out of the Court
so I don't know
you're both I'm doing it
this side like that you're doing
something with the wrist
you're doing this I should be doing this
with the wrist
and that's going to help what to get
them inside of the court on the other
side interesting what was the reasoning
for that do you want to supposed to be
using your wrists right at the contact
right here
so
some I don't know like it's something
there and are you taking a lesson with
this guy no are you sure I promise you
and you're not cheating right no oh no
okay all right not anymore not anymore
what oh you did okay well I forgive you
it's okay listen um yeah I don't know
what this guy meant by that but what
happens on some guys
and girls okay guys I mean both what
happens on some players is the following
look
they come through here and now some will
go like this and others will go like
this so they'll break the wrist here a
little bit but that's like well after
the ball's already left the racket
so it's irrelevant now if this something
that feels good for you here but that in
itself not going to have any effect on
the stroke itself okay not gonna do
anything the ball is already long the
left the strings right but we already do
some Western grip because of course yes
there could be many other reasons why
it's going out okay I'm going to do a
deep examination of your issues but
this guy and I don't know what he meant
but I want what I'm assuming that he
meant he wants you to use the wrist to
help the ball
spin more and therefore go into court
more so he wants you to go like this
most likely I don't know because I'm I'm
guessing but you don't want to do this
you don't want to use the wrist we
talked about this many times you're
abruptly shortened the stroke you have a
high chance of framing you lose a ton of
power and the risk of injury increases
drastically when you try to use the
wrist also if you are someone that
doesn't do this naturally here by you
trying to snap the wrist at the very end
this might cause some risk issues as
well now you already had tennis elbow
which we healed successfully we don't
want to put too much pressure here and
start you know straining this part of
the arm don't do that finish clean look
we already talked about the Finish you
want to be right here right yeah clean
finish and now let me take a look at
your forehand see why they're going
along how far along are they going to go
into the fence or they're going just a
little bit out out a little bit how much
oh not much that's not too bad okay okay
because I always say look at look if you
hit the ball straight into the fence
that's what I call a catastrophic error
now there's a catastrophe on your hands
you understand
hitting the straight into the fence oh
no it doesn't do that okay or if it goes
very far like two three meters
that's a catastrophic error there's some
humongous technical flow on your
forehand it could be many different
things but there's something really
really wrong if it's missing about this
much or if it's missing about this much
they might not necessarily be anything
wrong with your Technique they might be
shot selection
it might be the fact that you are
overheating a little bit not putting
enough spin it could be some of those
things a little bit of timing maybe
small errors that is my guess but let me
check okay go right here and hit a few
and this is one of the most beautiful
days I've ever seen in my life
there's no wind
perfect temperature perfect day to play
tennis
okay do it again
Anna these are looking crisp another one
good
Anna yeah I'm glad that happened that's
what I call a catastrophic error you saw
where ball landed straight into the
fence now you're laughing but it's
actually not funny you know why because
you know what you did you snapped at the
ball like this here's the ball look all
right here's the face of the ball it
says pen right here okay you come at
that ball and you slap it like this
It's Gonna Fly Like Crazy
you have to come at the ball and caress
think about caressing it so with that
mental image in mind when you come over
it you don't want to slap it like this
and and do this but more caressable this
way so keep keep this angle of your hand
and the racket for a while after making
contact you want to go around and you're
going to rotate all that it's true but
don't like go like this and slap the
ball
is going to respond by shooting very far
with very little control so you come
over it like this so if you look at the
pros no matter how much spin they're
putting the tip of the racket is always
pointing towards that side shortly after
contact which is an indicator that they
keep this part very stable shortly after
contact
yeah so if you if you change this angle
if you go like this or like this the
wrist right at contact results in a
disaster
okay
okay that for example wasn't that bad of
a Miss like it hit it pretty clean it
still went out so there might have been
some small things there maybe you went a
little bit too much like this but not
for full release maybe just a little
little slap you know
okay there's a push so that's a
completely different scenario you won't
see the ball going to the fence but you
see it go along a lot if you slow down
in here and you start pushing forward
that'll make the ball a little what I
call steering you'll steer the ball
along
okay very little rotations on the ball
it's just a it's a slow push the ball
will go out not by that far but it's
going to be hard
yeah so these things happen and
yeah it's part of tennis so you're going
to run into these uh issues and there's
a matter of you having the ability to
know what happened and correct it when
you're by yourself when you don't have
me
and also you're feeding it perfectly for
me so well I'm going to be I'm going to
be rallying with you in a minute and
we'll we'll check again but it's a
matter of you self-correcting when
you're playing
Anna that was clean come again
maybe the best one so far let me go on
the other side we'll hit
well it wasn't a heavy topspin but don't
worry about that right over there well
you look at the you look at the flight
path of the ball
which is not directly quarter to the
topspin by the way so ball can have
different shape it can go a little
higher over the net we can go a little
bit more shallow over the net you can
still hit with topspin even though the
ball goes shallow
don't worry about that other than trying
to go up
at the ball rather than you meet the
ball if you go up and continue to go up
here to this side your ball will have
topspin but it's going to be super heavy
Top Spin that's going to depend if you
make the ball go too high over the net
you can get too spinning
so if you're too vertical here if you go
straight up like this that can turn into
like a Top Spin lab and the ball all of
a sudden goes too high has a lot of spin
but it loses some of its penetration so
don't worry too much about net height
yes you want to have decent net height
but it also shouldn't be way too high
over the net okay okay because then you
lose penetration all right so let me go
over there and we're gonna test to see
what the form looks like you stand right
here
good try try
good
good
don't slap
come
on stand your toes keep your feet moving
a little bit more right yeah like don't
don't be flat-footed in between the
shots
like move more between the shots stay on
your toes and really focus on tracking
the ball and finding it better
from here I want you to confidently
swing
to here don't be scared in here don't
steer so a lot of times you're still
being careful here you're pushing
through like this you're steering the
racket face still has a tendency to open
up confidently finish here right here
and I did 10 in a row
very nice
good Anna
yeah positioning throws me off a lot
especially the short balls I think I
think you don't see them so let's finish
off with some clean forehands I want you
to go across Court you stay right there
ready position
foreign
this is the thing about tennis yes it's
easy to just do a couple of good shots
but what if we have to get consecutive
good shots that's the next step in the
program when I'm hand feeding you you do
a really good job before it looks very
clean but when I do live ball with you
at the next
man it's harder listening
by hand feeding like literally but
anyway when I'm at the net or at the
Baseline all of a sudden this live ball
more unpredictable you struggle why do
you struggle your ball recognition is
bad why has your ball recognition been
kind of stuck and Halt and not really
getting that much better yeah because
your Readiness or your intensity is
lacking a lot of times you're still
stuck standing around you're standing
around your heels remember what I told
you a gazillion times intensity stand
your toes keep your feet moving we still
got work to do we're doing good but we
got to keep improving okay
