but your surgery was here on the side
right uh it was on my ankle but on the
side right yeah so well on both sides oh
you had both feet operated on no both
sides of left ankle oh both sides the
inside and the outside yeah yeah so like
probably like moving forward is probably
easier than moving side to side right I
don't know I don't like walking and I
don't like running I don't mind dancing
on high heels so we'll see you like to
dance on the high heel heels let's see
how that goes okay so this is your first
day where you're going to attempt to run
yeah that's crazy yeah all right listen
we're going to have to start slow we're
going to have to see if you still know
how to play
tennis it's been it's been a year and a
half generally it's like riding a
bicycle once you learn you keep the
muscle memory but this is just a theory
okay we're going to have to test and see
whether you still know how to play
remember
beforehand okay let me just see what it
looks
like
okay see it's the same Anna you see what
it is it's exactly the same as before
it's like you never left and don't hold
too tight loosen up a little bit the
grip yeah don't hold too tight like this
on an angle like that and you're
semi-western grip that's beautiful Anna
very nice here we go now come
on Anna that one was crisp yeah yes do
it
again even crisper do another
one I don't know why they're not going
over this is the old Anna I missed the
analysis so you you freak out when you
start missing but you shouldn't okay you
should expect mistakes especially today
since you haven't played in a year and a
half so you shouldn't try to overanalyze
oh what happened why did it go into the
net just keep it super simple you try to
go a little bit higher over the net on
the next one and don't drive yourself
crazy okay analysis paralysis exactly
remember this and right away you made
the next one all the work you put into
tennis and those like two years that we
played you get to keep that forever yeah
you're a little bit Rusty right now
you're hitting some shots off the off
the center right because you haven't
played but the stroke is still there the
muscle memory is deeply ingrained in
your system and you're back on the
courtz and now it's about you know
getting back to the level you were at
prior to quitting and then getting
better but you did not get much worse
okay yeah you are Rusty no doubt about
that but you didn't get worse you didn't
forget how to play in other
words look at these shots they're
nice all right let's test the
backand all right remember what we call
those catastrophic errors so there was a
little bit of a slapshot there you kind
of snapped at it all right don't don't
go too crazy now I know you're excited
about being back just hit it not at full
speed okay you slow down a little bit
maybe like 60 70% power all right very
nice now we're going to start moving you
a little bit side to side okay ready
position and we're going to do one
forehand one backand let's see what
happens on the
Run okay a little bit more space on that
back hand good one come
again another one
come and one more
which one is coming easier now forehand
or backhand forehand yeah right I can
see that backhand you it looks like
you're a little bit like stiff and
restricted on it you don't trust it so
we're going to work a little bit more on
the back hand today and back hand
side all right now next progression I'm
going to go on the maybe I don't turn
enough we're going to do a deep analysis
today of your backand and we're going to
see what's going on with it there's a
little bit of a over rotation you're
going like this a little too much
there's some weird things with the
wrists going on it it's not clean okay
forand is looking a lot better but um
let me feed you a few so you get a
little bit of pace and then today we'll
probably focus a little bit more on the
backand to get it back to the level it
was before okay mhm all right come on
yes come on Anna you still got
it nice forehand Anna
good it's okay come
again another one
come good one
Anna forand is looking very crisp the
backand there's a few problems and we're
going to recalibrate the backand a
little bit to make those problems go
away yeah but more importantly I'm going
to teach you a new timing that I've been
teaching to my students okay that's the
easiest timing on the two-handed back
end at the recreational level it's going
to make everything a lot easier it's
going to make everything more intuitive
before I teach you the timing I do want
to talk about a couple of things that
are concerning to me number one it's the
over rotation on your back end sometimes
where you're literally like you're
spinning like this that back foot comes
up it comes around too fast so the way
we're going to do this is we're going to
block that back foot for spinning too
early and way we're going to do it is by
going like this dragging the tip forward
so we're not going to allow this foot to
get off the ground Now understand it
down now understand it's not wrong to
make the back foot go off the ground
it's actually correct but we want to fix
the timing of it because you're coming
around too fast mhm and that's why we're
going to drag we're going to
drag there you go I didn't drag This
Time come on you don't have to drag All
the Way Forward by the way that's
perfect go again a little bit a little
bit too early a little bit too early you
come off the ground a little bit there
come
again drag Anna and again stop myself
from over rotating absolutely because
remember on the two-handed backand the
rotation is simultaneous with the
forward movement of the Racket and it
has to be sequenced in accordance to the
acceleration of the racket so if you're
initially rotating too fast you're going
to over spin yourself yeah yeah okay but
so by mentally holding it this way you
are rotating and going forward at a more
exact it's probably going to be a
sharper finish too because you're not
going to be dragging the ball with your
rock see what happens when you over
rotate this is true for forehand and
backand you reduce the radius of your
stroke because when that back foot
starts coming around too early and it's
going here you're reducing the radius of
your stroke it becomes smaller you're
basically like spinning in a circle like
this same on the forehand you're
spinning in a circle here so when you
delay that and your radius becomes
larger so when on the forehand if I go
like this this that's different from
going from going like this the same on
the back end if I go here and I go too
early this foot is going to be off the
ground I'm going to rotate around this
foot and going to be a very small radius
where if I keep this foot down longer
and I go like this now this part right
here is going to be wider by the way it
looks ugly when you do this it looks
ugly look like amateur so all right here
we go now come on that's better Anna
come again back to the middle
please
again Anna this is looking
crisper maybe the crisp is back end so
far Anna that was a junk junky shot
we're going to talk about that in a
second
junk not bad let's get it past the
service line
though Anna don't hold it there now
you're holding it come forward with that
side yes Anna
good Anna that's not bad at all come
again Anna that's not bad at all come
again this
foot knee extends or no say again knee
extends yes knee extend
unless the ball is low then you stay
down okay if the ball is wayist tight
and above you don't need to stay down
boom right no you go it's in accordance
to the contact that you're making so if
the contact is super low you stay down
okay if it's like waist tight and above
you stay down to load but then you raise
got it okay yeah so when you make
contact you're not low anymore you
extended here yeah
yeah and a crisp backand right there
come
again that's a slap we're going to talk
about that in a
second I like it all right now let's
talk about what's happening around the
contact and sometimes there is some
movement here so that's just a matter of
you making sure that you think about
finishing clean okay that you're not
thinking about hitting the ball with
your hands or your arms and going like
this here but just focus on the Finish
itself and that can help clean up the
actual contact we're going to go here
and now look what happens Anna and you a
wrong grip going Continental with that
side all right again here here look at
this not like this okay not like this
but like this bam all right do it again
this right there okay that's how you got
to do it so that that that there you go
so
don't I I finished later sometimes but
sometimes there's movement here you're
trying to hit the ball with your hand
and that's when you start spraying a lot
so don't do that don't try to hit with
your hands okay think more of the Finish
it's a full body
shot Anna maybe the curp is back and you
hit so far come again Anna you got
this come on get the elbows up elbows up
yes
Anna yes
Anna no
ohing yes
again all right looking a lot better yes
and now we're going to learn proper
timing and it's going to make the whole
stroke more flowing more intuitive so go
right here in the middle the first thing
I'm going to have you do is stick the
racket out to the side okay so when I
say side on which you go like this side
okay all right when the ball bounces on
your side I'm going to say back and what
that refers to is the tip of the racket
going straight towards the back fence
did you reshape your foot did you step
the don't worry about that I was just
don't worry now you're getting into the
weeds you're just going to set up like
you always do you're going to turn and
all that so step number one is side step
number two is back step number three is
finish so I'm going to yell at
you side back finish side back finish
okay remember the side happens right
away mhm the back happens when the ball
bounces and the Finish that's pretty
obvious that's going to happen after you
have made contact with the ball okay try
it out here we go now come on side back
finish okay side back finish side back
finish side back finish don't like that
one nose down nose down yeah my nose of
the nose down the nose I like that the
nose of the racket was down listen the
nose of the racket can't go down his
ball is lower right I have no problem
with that so if you got a super low ball
put the nose down and go up like that
you get more spin it's okay but
generally on on on normal back hands you
start a little bit higher you get the
racket to drop you get a little bit more
flow more continuity okay but the nose
down on some back hands is not a bad
thing okay okay side back finish all
right side back finish all right so this
Exercise Works on a multitude of
technical elements on the back end so
when I'm screaming side that's an early
prep okay so that's step step number one
in the three-part sequence where you see
a ball going to your back and right away
you're here yeah all right so and we put
the racket here which generally
coincides with a turn of the body as
well mhm which is great I remember that
yeah when we wait to initiate the stroke
on the bounds we're going to get a more
continuous stroke a more flowing stroke
and the entire thing is going to be more
intuitive and that's where step number
two when I say back that's what that
goes into play many players have a
problem of taking the racker back too
early and now they're stuck in the back
here and and there's really no flow to
the stroke and the Finish it's
self-explanatory it's one of the most
important elements of any stroke is to
intent to finish all the way because
that's going to free up the so important
contact Zone and you're going to be able
to hit the ball freely without maybe
risting it or pushing it or steering it
okay so this is a really good method and
you see right there those were great
backand and probably mentally they felt
better too much better okay good so now
I'm going to go to the other side and
I'm still going to be yelling at you the
same things and the timing is going to
be a little bit more tricky now because
you have more Pace coming at you okay
side back finish Anna when I say side
don't go here but go a little bit more
diagonal side back finish not bad at all
side back finish that's all right side
back finish I like it side back
finish yes come on side back finish whoa
yes side back finish yes side back
finish very clean and now I want you to
do it alone okay without me saying
anything you're going to do it
alone hold was the movement on the court
were you unsure of it did you get more
comfortable as the lesson progressed I
just feel like you look at me and you
think I'm very
slow not at all I really think you're
thinking that I'm very slow you know cuz
every time you did something you
like almost like I have to know to go
back into the middle and I kind of
walked into the middle I you yeah I want
you to keep keep the feet moving yeah
for sure for sure but you felt good out
there yeah yeah not not nothing wrong
yeah well I'm happy you're back I love
Dan so much tennis is the best and
you're doing really well you did good
today you see you didn't forget how to
play you thought you told me you thought
that you're not going to be able to play
at all you probably would have forgotten
and lost your level but you have not I I
lost all my Playmates well that's going
to happen but you get you'll get new
ones well do you think twice a week uh
and our coaching would be enough I think
that's phenomenal yeah three times a
week that's amazing with somebody yes I
definitely think that you should
continue to um like you did before you
got hurt um do the clinic play with
other people play with me three times a
week is great but if you can do it more
more do you recommend the wall of course
yes I'm a big proponent of the wall yeah
I know you like the wall and the ball
machine yeah W that's that's too much
too much that's too much okay all right
well listen it's the most fun when you
play with other people MH and um I know
you found a lot of Partners last time I
don't think yeah you're going to be able
to find PL I I'll find
somebody good to have you back Anna nice
job thank
