and I remember the swing path you put
your racket here and then you put it
here like do that even in the mini
tennis yeah so you but don't finish no
finish but just don't hit it too hard
and don't take the racket as far back as
you normally do it many tennis you start
here and you drop it right here but you
still want to try to finish okay even
when mini tennis you go from here to
here
yes
good yes Anna
yes
good I like
it I don't like the rigidness back
here I like the wrist to be a little bit
more loose okay so when you go here you
drop like this remember that's the
perfect takeback for you from here to
here when you too much I feel like
you never release and the wrist is
locked too long and it has bad effects
later on in the swing so we need to make
it just slightly looser so you go here
here and then just let it go from here
and then you're going to get into that
lag naturally okay does that make sense
I was just like specifically keeping it
like tight because it has a way of
Wiggle and like loosen up too much you
know I don't like that I understand 100%
And that's a whole another problem where
this too loose and you start snapping at
the ball so these are both extremes that
are not good and we have to find a
middle ground we don't want to be too
loose we also don't want to be too rigid
and too tight for sure so remember this
is going back like two years before your
surgery we found the perfect takeback we
go here and then we just drop like this
here we just drop the strings to the
cord this and this remember that and
then from here we go forward and then
then naturally the wrist is going to go
further back but to lock it and and and
have it cocked like this when I see this
when I see the strings to the to the sky
in the back I get scared because I know
that you're hyperextending the the wrist
and possibly going this way as
well I like it Anna much
cleaner go
again
good good Anna beautiful
job good
Anna it was weird right no it was too
all right do a
backand
good I like that a lot so simple so
clean
good good pick it
up and attack it
come all right Anna I like this takeback
style a lot better for you it's more
simple it's also more fluid what is the
difference between the um original one
with way of we doing there's more range
of motion now so the one disadvantage of
a rigid locked wrist through the
entirety of the Swing is that it's going
to be difficult to get into the desired
wrist position so if you lock your wrist
here like this and then you start
dropping so you're getting a lag but
what actually happens on the forehand is
that the Racket and the forward
acceleration lags behind
further right and if you too tight here
and too locked you don't get that extra
lag so your lag is limited when you have
a locked position L is Loop no lag is
like when you go for when you go forward
you see this when you go forward like
this when you pull forward the racket
lags behind the the hand which is going
forward that's the lag so when you are
in a locked position like this so when
the racket drops and you go forward if
you look at this on camera it looks
biomechanically correct because you are
achieving a sufficient lag however when
you examine high level 4in closely they
actually lag and the racket goes further
back like this so the optimal lag is
from a forward acceleration that's so
violent that the tip of the racket
actually goes backwards and when the
wrist is too rigid too locked you have
absolutely no chance of getting that
extra lag mm you understand which is
extra power automatically it's more
range of motion extra power yes cuz the
racket goes from here into the contact
here it's more range of motion bigger
space for the acceleration to take place
is better yeah so when you're locked and
you're going from here to here you get a
little bit less so it's not the end of
the world to play with the rigid wrist
you still might be able to hit some
decent forehands but it's not optimal
and also when we're talking about the
actual swing path at contact and shortly
thereafter if you're too locked you know
you're going to have less range of
motion less fluid it to here and you
might end up hitting the ball with less
range of motion with more of a tighter
shorter type swing path when it's locked
it will be less because what what
happens sometimes is that the tightness
of the wrist transfers into into the the
rest of the body so now it's your
forearm that's also tight it's your you
know upper arm that's tight maybe your
chest is tight and your trunk and and
you're tight here you end up going like
this and the entire thing looks tight
yeah so you don't want to be too loose
with talked about this because then
you're slapping the ball you're
spaghetti arming it and your balls are
flying into The Back Fence no good but
you also don't want to be too stiff you
got to find the middle ground so that
you have the proper range of motion in
the wrist with a full lag and then the
wrist going once the racket goes in a
vertical position the wrist should go
along for the ride and start breaking
this way so that the back of your hand
goes towards your left cheek if you
happen to be right handed over the
shoulder sometimes could be anywhere as
long as you turn it over if you turn it
over at the end that is the the desired
finish on the forehand too and that
involves some wrist fluidity and again
if the wrist is too rigid you you're
going to have a harder time achieving
those effects yeah
yeah I love
it I love it Anna look at that take back
so
clean and for It On the Run come Anna go
go and attack this one
cap very clean all right you're doing
good I actually felt
that thing which thing the log you were
telling me about you felt it oh yeah
like two or three times it feels so good
Anna do you remember our last lesson
with the backand where we did side back
back finish finish let's do the same
thing on the forehand because I feel
like the initial sequencing on the
forehand is still not optimal sometimes
you could do a little better job you
hate the cone I don't like them all
right no worries but you come you
promise you go back to the middle okay
thank
all right list I don't like running
around them it drives you crazy doesn't
it okay look we're going to improve the
sequencing on the forehand when I say
side you're going to immediately go
parallel to the yeah you can separate go
ahead go here side this is side all
right now side
encompasses the setup process and the
observation of the ball super important
step so when I say side you're looking
at the ball and you're setting up okay
you're setting up when I say back that's
when you start going back with the
racket that's close to the bounce okay
and then finish is self-explanatory
you're G you that's what happens when
you hit the ball so side is maybe the
most important element because if you
get that one wrong everything ends up
hectic very difficult to feel the stroke
because everything's over so quickly so
say again what you just said I was like
in my body if you don't do the first
step which is side M quickly enough
let's say you wait too long like this
and you're look at the ball and now it's
close to the balance and you turn like
this and you do everything at once turn
and the take back and everything it
feels rushed it feels hectic and it's
hard to know what actually just happened
you just hit the ball and you don't know
what you did cuz everything happen so
fast so when you segment the stroke like
this compartmentalize it if you will and
as quickly as possible as soon as you
know as a forehand you go side and you
set up and now you find yourself in the
perfect position close to the balance
you go back racket starts going back and
then obviously when you when I say
finish you're going to try to finish as
much as you can that's a segmentation of
the stroke that's going to make it more
fluid more continuous and mentally it's
going to feel like you have a lot more
time than you actually do yeah all right
even if it's a slow Bowl just be ready
right away always any ball in tennis
even when it's slow don't get tricked by
the slow ball you always want to be
quick on that first part the side okay
all right here we go
side back finish all right so so the
side is super slow now super slow you're
not hear me say side I do all right when
you hear I don't do things no you I say
side and you're still here oh Anna when
I say side here yeah yeah yeah okay side
back finish very clean side back finish
and these are looking crisp now we're
going to do it without me saying
anything okay and let's see what happens
one more time I didn't like that one let
me help you again okay I'm going to call
out side back finish again when you hear
side you side side like this side back
finish very clean forehand one more side
back
finish so good I want to point out one
thing that is not a mistake on you just
because you have a lot of good muscle
memory cuz we've been doing some really
good work on the forehand but doing this
drill with some other players they
translate the back into something that
they do rapidly or fast so I want to
just point this out to the people that
are watching that the side can happen
super fast like this but when when I say
back you don't want to go like this uh
because the segment of the stroke is
slow to fast the stroke doesn't
accelerate from zero to 100 and it goes
like this it goes slow here and then it
gradually starts speeding up it's like
gravity is taking yeah so it's like a
Flor blowing gradually accelerating
continuous stroke so the back you did
correctly just because of your good
muscle memory which means that we did a
lot of good work in the past because you
weren't taking the racket back fast and
getting stuck back there you were
flowing here yeah which is great okay
all right you need a drink yeah go ahead
go get a
drink side back hit not bad at all side
back hit last one Anna
side back hit so clean all right I'm
going to go to the other side we'll do
the same thing side back hit side back
hit beautiful side back hit very clean
side back hit good side back hit good
we'll keep the ball in play I'm going to
tell you again and then I'm going to not
say anything and we'll see what happens
okay s side back hit good side back hit
good side back hit side back
hit side back
hit side back hit side back hit all
right Anna now I'm not going to say
anything but you're going to think about
it in your head
quietly it's too high
here
good
good go ahead a lot of times when I play
with you particularly yeah uh when the
ball kicks here even like in the middle
of the C yeah it's still here as I'm
already here so and then when I hit it
it goes straight into the net you're
talking about the ball yeah go ahead I'm
sorry like when it's because you have to
kick it here right so when it's like
keep level or something yeah yours
are here and like really high and like
how do you maneuver it so it doesn't go
into the net because I hit it here and
definitely you know put it into the net
which I don't like so that's a High Top
Spin ball I'm not hitting it on purpose
maybe I'm shanking it or Mish hitting it
slightly and the ball suggested to me
I'm trying to but sometimes I kind of
mish hit or I'm putting accidentally too
much spin on it and it goes over your
head and those are tough to play and
that's a lesson for another day how to
play the live ball so you don't want to
end up in the back fence so you might
have to learn to take those a little bit
earlier on the rise so to speak but
we'll have to do that some other time so
go closer to where it lands originally I
guess see the problem is that on that
particular ball you're talking about
it's kind of Speedy a little bit so you
can't wait for it to drop because you're
going to be in The Back Fence so when
you play against the level of
player that you're going to be facing on
the court you don't have to worry about
that so much generally speaking they
high balls they're not going to
penetrate as much and you can wait for
the ball to drop and maybe you're going
to be further back but you're not going
to be pushed that far back so you can
take those on the way down where once
you experience a high ball with more
penetration you have to learn to take
those earlier that's really the only way
okay so again let's cover that down the
down the road maybe next time we'll work
on the high forehand but now let's
continue with the segmenting let's
continue have very clean take back back
here nice and nice and clean and we'll
get a couple more good forehand okay
excent come on thanks
yes
Anna it's okay come come
on beautiful
job
good last
one one more come on
Anna all right last one side back finish
here we go
all right very clean Anna good job you
did so good today how you feeling on the
forehand Now versus much better I feel
the beginning suggested I'm glad you
explained this one because it wasn't my
obsession from the word
upset when they're here and I'm already
at the very back of it so never like
that don't worry that's one of the
toughest shots mhm at any level really
is playing the high ball it's a very
very tricky shot to play but I think
when you go out and play on your own I
want you to keep in mind not to be here
too long cuz that was a mistake you're
waiting here too long and and just get
that first step out of the way that's
going to give you more time and you're
doing a lot of other things good you've
improved a lot it's just a matter of
keep uh going and stay with it thank you
nice job
Anna very good when you get back from
Europe I will be much better you'll see
how many times per week do you play now
three times that's great you know what I
recently noticed that um some people I
play with they have this uh Frozen
necklaces I love those oh yeah I've seen
that yeah it helps a tremendous uh the
ice thing and I'm going to start picking
up nothing special but now I started
like waking up the the Beast starting
waking up yeah and they see my shots
holy it's beautiful no it's ni
